SonATA Database Overview
2009-08-04
jj

DATABASE CREATION

The database is created in mysql.

	> mysql -h hostname
	mysql> CREATE DATABASE <database name>

Select the database.

	mysql> use <database name>

Load the table schema.

	mysql> source sse-pkg/database/seeker.schema
	
Load the site information.

	mysql> source sse-pkg/database/seeker.site.data

Load the star catalog.

	mysql> source sse-pkg/database/seeker.ao-starlist.data  


PRIMING THE DATABASE WITH RFI SIGNALS

We sample the RFI environment at the beginning of each run by pointing
the antenna at zenith and running rfiscan Activities. There are
two purposes for this. First we can find the regions where
RFI is so dense that we choose not observe there. These frequency
bands are entered into a permanent RFI mask. Second, all the signals
detected during these activities are classified as RFI with the reason
RFI_SCAN. We usually do 3 passes over the observing frequency range
to collect enough signals for database lookups.

OBSERVING PROTOCOL

There are numerous parameters for the various subsystems that the 
observer can specifiy via the user interface. In practice however,
the parameters are fixed for the entire deployment. The system runs
in automatic mode selecting the target stars and frequencies based
on the observation history in the database. 

When an Activity starts, all the associated parameters need to be recorded. 
Rather than save the same parameters over and over again, we compare
the activity parameters with the parameter sets that are already
stored in the database. If there is a match, then the Id for the 
matching parameter sets are used to link the Activities and 
ActivityUnits tables to the appropriate parameters.
If a parameter set is unique, then a new entry is made in the parameter
table.

During the observation status and detection results are stored in
the various tables. See SonATA Database Tables.
On the successful completion of an observation the validObservation
field in the Activities and ActivityUnits table are set to 'Yes'.
It is possible for the Activity to be valid even if some of the
ActivityUnits fail to complete. However, if all ActivityUnits fails,
the Activity fails.
